{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Lexend;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Lexend Black;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Lexend Light;}{\f3\fnil Lexend;}{\f4\fnil Calibri;}{\f5\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f6\fnil Lexend Black;}{\f7\fnil\fcharset0 Lexend ExtraLight;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green176\blue80;\red67\green67\blue67;\red0\green0\blue255;\red51\green51\blue51;\red0\green0\blue0;\red90\green90\blue90;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22621}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa160\sl259\slmult0\qr\b\f0\fs30\lang9 Kwame Addo \par
kwameoaddo79@gmail.com\par
409.292.6426\par

\pard\sa160\sl259\slmult0\qj\cf1\b0\f1\par
\par
\par
\b\f0 Professional footprint\par
\cf2\b0\fs22 Senior Software Developer with 15 years of experience analyzing, designing, implementing and unit testing of N-tier data driven applications, both Frontend and Backend. \par
Experienced with full software development life cycle, SCRUM and Agile methodologies, as well as Domain Driven Design of Information Systems; Designing company\rquote s coding standards; Expertise in full stack application development using {\ul{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://asp.net/"}}{\fldrslt{ASP.NET}}}}\f0\fs22 , C#, Web APIs, React, Angular 2 and 4 and SQL Server; \par
Always applying good creational, structural and behavioral design patterns, practices, with SOLID principles and Architectural mindedness.\par
Proven track record in delivering high-quality code that meets project requirements and exceeds client\rquote s expectations. Strong communication skills and ability to work collaboratively with cross-functional teams to achieve project objectives. \par
Passionate about innovation and using technology to drive business growth and possess strong problem- solving skills and has been known to the peers as a very capable team player with a love for learning; recognized by teammates for following best practices consistently and delivering high-quality software.\par
SDLC tenure that has involved implementations in Healthcare frameworks, protocol level debugging, transactional paradigm design and implementations using .net framework, ASP CORE, ADO.NET, EFCORE, EntityFramework for .Netframework, NET5,6-8.\par
Great experience with Azure cloud technologies PAAS and SAAS. PowerBI, PowerApps, DevOps, CI/CD Pipeline \par
\cf0\f2\fs30\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj\cf1\f1\fs24\par
\par
\par
\par
Key Stack:\par
\cf4\f0\fs22 [.NetFramework, .NetCore, NET5-8, C#, Javascript, Reactjs, Typescript, AspCore, AspCoreWebAPI, SPAs, SQLServer, MongoDB, JWT Auth/OAuth, ADO.NET, EFCore,  BLAZOR/RAZOR, CSS, Media Queries, BOOTSTRAP4/5. HTML5, SOAP, REST, LINQ], \par
\par
\cf1\f1\fs24 Principles:\cf4\f0\fs22\par
Design Patterns, SOLID Principles, OOP\par
\par
\cf1\f1\fs24 Tools:/ENV\par

\pard\sa160\sl259\slmult0\qj\cf4\f0\fs22 SWAGGER, FIGMA, VSCODE VISUAL STUDIO AZURE-DEVOPS, AZURE GIT, AZURE PIPELINES, FIDDLER, POSTMAN, KATALON, TFS,SOURCESAFE CHROMEDEVTOOLS]\par
\cf0\par
\cf1\f1\fs24 Education\par
\cf4\b\f0\fs22 University of Texas at Dallas \cf1\b0\f1\fs24\par
\cf4\f0\fs22 Master\rquote s degree in information technology and Management.     August 2013 - May 2015\par
Focus: Software Engineering | Data Analytics | ERP\par
\par
\b Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology Ghana\b0\tab\tab\tab\tab Bachelor\rquote s Degree in Engineering \tab\tab\tab\tab      August 1999 \f3\endash\f0  May 2004\cf0\f1\fs36\par
\cf5\f0\fs22\tab\tab\tab\par
\par
\cf1\f1\fs24 Lead Software Developer   Musa Group - Texas    (September 2022 \f4\endash\f5  Current)\fs22\par
\cf5\f0 Responsible for leading the complete SDLC implementation \cf0 of a\cf5  data driven  non-blocking web application.\par
Cordinated and implemented along side UI team for the wireframe, architectural, system and UI designs using Figma.\par
Designed, Normalized, Implemented Relational Database for the requirement Entities using SQL Server database. \par
Implemented C# Class Libraries for the requirement based on SOLID principles.\par
Employed Factory Method Design Pattern to create Tournament and Other Entities\par
\cf0 Created and Implemented React Components, Injected React Hooks, and managed State with Redux by implementing State Provider, Stores, Actions and Reducers. \par
Integrated Material UI, TailwindCSS,Bootstrap components into React application. \par
\cf5 Employed Singleton Design Pattern for User Instance Objects\par
Implemented Crud Operations using ASPCore Controllers using C# over webAPI\par
Implemented Middleware Ledger for Dependencies in AspCore using C# \par
Created and Implemented Components to match Figma Design using React js.  \par
Implemented EFCore code first approach as data mapper to SQL Database using C#\cf0 .\par
Created, managed and assigned the user story for team members. \par
Fostered and encouraged a high communicative, information exchange,knowledge sharing, peer to peer mentorship environment as a lead. \par
Utlilized a DI Containers.\par
\par
\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj\cf6\par

\pard\sa160\sl259\slmult0\qj\cf1\f1\fs24 Lead Software Developer\tab      Montgomery County MD (Jan 2022 \f6\endash\f1  Sept 2022)\fs22\par
\cf5\f0 Lead an onshore team of 3 Engineers with Offshore of 3 Support Engineers on this project. \par
6 sprint cycles full stack implementations\par
\ul Architecture and Design \par
\ulnone Conducted Gap Analysis for phase 1 of the inherited prototype system.\ul\par
\ulnone Gap analysis required combing through requirement articles, aggressive system testing, code review and functionality testing and client performance testing.  Chrome Dev Tools, React Dev Tools.\par
Delivered a design proposal for UI as well as its implications in DB entity alignment.\par
Proposed, architected, and implemented a profiling, forms and modal based data flow model for a friendly UI experience and flow, instead of strict exam like model.\ul\par
\ulnone Monolithic style forms were deconstructed into components, redesigned the DB to accommodate the new paradigm of the application data consumption.\par
\ul\par
Agile Platform\par
\ulnone Utilized AZURE DEVOPS to manage User stories and tasks.\par
\par
\ul Code Implementations and Integration\par
\ulnone Integrated functionalities in REACT Over its corresponding APIs with ASPCORE stack.\par
Implemented various new components that employed redux for state management. React Components reducers, actions and various Hooks.\par
\cf0 Designed a normalized\cf5  and partly denormalized data base for this requirement.\par
Designed and implemented EULA functionality for first time users using C# over Web API \par
Implemented JWT tokens authentication integrated with Single Sign On using C# \par
Designed and implemented 80% of the progress bar for the portal dashboard using C#\par
Designed and implemented Controllers and EF for entities of interest for their crud operations using C#\par
Designed and implemented Document upload and download functionality using C#\par
Resolved functional and logic bugs after system alignment to new design.\par
Was involved in code deployment, merges of dev and test branches.\par
\cf0\par
\par
\par
\cf5\par
\cf1\f1\fs24 Messaging Engineer                     Microsoft (Sept 2019 \f4\endash\f5  December 2021)\par
\cf5\f0\fs22 Member of the Outlook team that provides Code Implementation, Research and Walkthroughs support for Developers who are implementing Microsoft Exchange, Outlook, O365,Teams, and Graph APIs.  \par
\par
Modern Authentication/OAuth MSAL/ADAL implementations using Rest Protocol and C# SDK \par
Conditional access policy implementations using PowerShell Exchange APIs. \par
VSTO, COM Addin, Modern Addin API implementations. \par
RESTFUL implementations that operate on Calendar MailStore or Items, either through the Exchange, Outlook endpoint or Microsoft Graph.\par
Implemented a REST protocol Salesforce Integration with PowerAutomate to extract Salesforce CRM records such as emails, for both interactive and Silent applications. \line Experienced using Salesforce endpoint as an Authentication provider for acquiring Access tokens. \par

\pard\li360\sa160\sl259\slmult0\qj\par

\pard\sa160\sl259\slmult0\qj Programmatically troubleshooting / debugging silent client applications, in C# or Javascript exceptions when interacting with Exchange Web Service SOAP protocol, or Graph APIs Rest Protocol to Office365, hybrid environments, and \lquote OnPremise\rquote  servers. \par

\pard\li360\sa160\sl259\slmult0\qj\par

\pard\sa160\sl259\slmult0\qj Reproduced bugs and missed use cases experienced by Microsoft Premier License customers whose interactive or silent applications issue needed to be analyzed by the Microsoft Product Engineering Group. (Popular case I rose include OAuth missed use case for Autodiscover \f4\endash\f5  Outcome was implementation of Pox endpoint.)\par
\f0 Worked with Senior Escalation Engineers with the Product Engineering group when filing RFC(Request for comment), Business Impact Statement or Bugs-Filings to either resolve a bug within O365 or provide advisory on missed use cases/intentional design work-arounds.\par
\par
\cf1\f1\fs24 Lead Software Engineer \tab\tab MTN Ghana (May 2018 \f6\endash\f1  September 2019)\fs18\par
\cf5\f0\fs22 Gathered requirements, conceptual analysis, system design, use case documentation, UI design for Alex Payment systems using agile methodology and Object-Oriented Principles\par
Designed and modeled prototype Entity relational artifact for Alex Payment Systems\par
Composed a normalized entity relational database for the payment system. \par
Employed front end technologies such as Html 5, CSS 3, Bootstrap, W3.CSS, JSON.\par
Angular in designing a proprietary web application.\par
Employed bootstrap and W3.CSS for button and navigation design as well as custom bootstrap components.\par
Employed Routers using angular routing provider.\par
Created JSON service files which fetches data for view by employing http get request with callback functions.\par
Created dynamic client-side functionality powered by Ajax. \par
Created data access layer by utilizing entity framework code first and DB first techniques \par
Implemented Crud operations using C# over MVC in ASP.NET framework. \par
\cf0\par
\par
\cf5\par
\cf1\f1\fs24 Software Engineer\tab\tab  MedAssets/NThrive (Sept 2014 \f6\endash\f1  May 2018)\par
\cf5\f0\fs22 Implemented or wrote, modified, investigated and debugged C# code for the following  \par
Provisioning logic written in C# language.\par
Created, tested new service applications and deployed DLLs to client production sites.\par
A C# Application to parse EDI Documents via FTP.\par
Windows based client to troubleshoot data transmission issues in the provisioning system.  \par
Refactored code base to employ LINQ Query which resolved DRYs in the applications. \par
Assisted in creating a windows form tool for sending SOAP messages by utilizing WSDL.\par
Created applications that utilized ADO.net connected and disconnected layer.\par
Composed SQL transact queries on enterprise databases to retrieve state of \ldblquote claims\rdblquote .\par
Conducted QA and peer review for colleagues prior to committing source codes.\par
Managed \ldblquote Claim\rdblquote  batching as well as scheduled jobs tools which moved data from database to clients\rquote  sites.\par
Updated and managed source control tools such as GitHub, Team foundation, SourceSafe.\par
Composed and managed Stored Procedures, Triggers and Views.\par
\par
\cf1\f1\fs24 Technical Analyst \tab\tab\tab AUCTION.COM (Dec 2013 \f6\endash\f1  Sept 2014)\par
\par
\cf0\f0\fs22 Wrote SQL Queries to extract Deed in Lieu and Short Sale transactions from Bank Of America Database.\par
Managed Stored procedures and performed reconciliations of data capture.\par
Assisted in the design and migration from MS Access to SQL Server Database. \par
\cf5 Generated P&L Variance analysis reports and business expense monthly flash.\par
Performed Monthly Pro Forma reports, Revenue Key-stats analysis, Ad Hoc reports such as TTM for P&L, periodic payroll accrual estimates\par
Created Quarterly Board of Directors Reports, Ad hoc analysis and reporting for the VP of finance\par
Formula controlled Spreadsheet models for accountants and VP of operations.\par
\cf0\par
\cf5\par
\cf1\f1\fs24 SAP Analyst                   Colgate Palmolive (Oct 2007 \f4\endash\f5  August 2013)\fs18\par
\cf5\f0\fs22 Assisted in the configuration of SAP R/3 or CRM functional bundles in the system landscape and setting up the data integration models (middleware) between CRM and R/3.\par
Identified new techniques / technology and concepts that add value to business / IT\par
Applied conceptual knowledge of business processes and technology to solve complex business process and procedural problems.\par
Assisted with the design, testing, implementation & documentation of SAP systems in accordance to agreed timelines, business requirements and global standards\par
Collaborated with internal parties such Global development, Risk Management and Business users to support the projects\par
Monitored daily e-Commerce activity to detect and resolve any issues that would prevent accurate, timely transaction processing.\par
Proficiently handled all complex customer EDI requests with the assistance of the Customer Advocate organization.\par
\par
\cf1\f1\fs24 PROJECTS\cf5\f0\fs22\par
Mobile Payment System: EF (DB First) Asp.net MVC API, Angular \par
Community Portal: Benefits Program Application using React, \cf0 WebAPI, SQL Server, Mongo DB. \cf5\par
Email Scanner: Outlook Addin API | Graph API | REST | SOAP\par
Web/Mobile Application - Blood Alcohol Level calculator\par
\cf0 Sports Betting Prototype using React js, Aspcore WebAPI \par
Share Community Portal  using React js, Aspcore WebAPI\par
Random Sound frequency Sampler using .Netframework\par
\cf5 BI Analytics Software SAS\par

\pard\li720\sa160\sl259\slmult0\qj Analyzed current customer behavioral patterns based on historical interval data in identifying specific Nominal Target. Employed Business intelligence Classification Techniques, such as Neural Network and Decision Tree to create a model that validates a desired nominal target.\par
\par

\pard\sa160\sl259\slmult0\qj\cf0\par
\cf5 Ratio Indicators analysis and recommendations NASDAQ: WFM vs NYSE: KR\par

\pard\li720\sa160\sl259\slmult0\qj Trend analysis, variance explanations, non-financials of Trailing five years comparison of both\par
companies.\par
\par

\pard\sa160\sl259\slmult0\qj Dating Site Database Design and Management\par
\par
ERP\par

\pard\li720\sa160\sl259\slmult0\qj BEx Query Designer and Analyzer; Business Objects OLAP Reporting; SAP BW \par
Data mining analysis; Crystal Reports/Xcelsius; ETL\par
\par

\pard\sa160\sl259\slmult0\qj System Analysis and Project management\par

\pard\li720\sa160\sl259\slmult0\qj Redesigned an existing system: Abercrombie and Fitch Website\par
Data modeling; Object Modeling and analysis; UML modeling; Software design; Testing and Implementation; Controls Design; Relational Database design; Business Object application design Data Structures and Algorithms.\par
\f7\par

\pard\sa160\sl259\slmult0\qj\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
 \par
}
 